#Pride #Austen #recording-notes #shownotes 


---
tags: [shownotes, Cranford, Gaskell, pride-&-prejudice]
date: 2025-05-12
---
## Miscellaneous
record intros to gumroad sale books then release first chapter
# Podcast Literature Note: Pride & Prejudice

**Date:** 2025-05-12

## Book
Pride & Prejudice 

## Chapters
- **Starting Chapter:** 9
- **Ending Chapter:** 10
- HOW ODIOUS (Miss Bingley is)

## Patrons
xxx


## BOOK TALK—Re-hash Notes
Darcy relieved to not have to pay attention to EB at very end

## Pre-hash Notes
9. Mrs. Bennet visits Netherfield and **embarrasses Elizabeth with her vulgarity and matchmaking.** (9:45)
    
10. Darcy finds himself more drawn to Elizabeth, though **Miss Bingley continues her jealous attempts to undermine her.** (12:28)
    
11. **Elizabeth and Darcy spar verbally**, while Caroline Bingley tries (and fails) to monopolize Darcy's attention. (9:04)
    
12. Jane recovers, and the Bennet sisters **return home from Netherfield.** (3:46)
**CH9**
- Mom says "do not run on in the wild manner that you are ***suffered*** to do at home" —apparantly dad approves, mom does not
- Listen to all the clues we get that Mom doesn't understand at least half of what's going on and "doth protest too much"/gets very boasty + trying to brag about Jane over Charlotte. ("I assure you there is quite as much of THAT going on in the country as in town" to Darcy/EB re people being endlessly interesting/changeable...Darcy just turns away, Mom thinks she won. Darcy is just treating an idiot in the kindest way he can. One point in EB's favor since he'll actually engage with her)
- Darcy will quote 12th Night - "The Food of Love" - EB's quip in response seems to be more to divert her Mom than actual conviction - but it's still hilarious
- STOUT: robust, healthy, not heavy (like a Guinnes stout isn't HEAVY, it's robust)
- Lydia "high animal spirits"  - BIG GOOD HUMOR but it's increased into "assurance" - whcih WAS NOT good
**CH10**
- ***This chapter combines plot, character, AND theme - conversation keeps the story moving, we learn a TON about their characters, and see pride, prejudice, persuasion, and amenability all on display (winning isn't everything, EB. Harumph)*** 
- Card games: [Loo](https://www.parlettgames.uk/histocs/loo.html#:~:text=Any%20player%20failing%20to%20do,the%2018th%20and%2019th%20centuries.&text=And%20mow'd%20down%20armies%20in%20the%20fights%20of%20Lu.&text=J%20in%20its%20capacity%20as,are%20three%20entirely%20disparate%20games.) and [Piquet](https://www.reddit.com/r/boardgames/comments/tyne1f/you_should_play_piquet/)
- Odious - I love this word
- [Quill pen making](https://youtu.be/k3aPOXkzNPk?si=PYw1RaIKRlsNGs9E)
- Darcy's dance with Miss B - who really is pathetic here
- blots - [blotting paper](https://youtu.be/FPMacwmZxHw?si=SLPwoKR3KGcUXiah&t=101), [pounce powder or sand](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pounce_(powder)
- Darcy will accuse Bingley of a Humble-brag about his handwriting
- panegyric: a public speech or published text in praise of someone or something.
- celerity: speed (all over Vindication)
- aweful (re Darcy) - actual meaning, inspiring awe
- D will call EB "Miss Bennet" - b/c Jane's not there and including her first name might be a bit too personal (Miss Elizabeth Bennet).
- Darcy is a "great man" - not like, soooo bitchen, but rank in society
- Darcy will ask EB about "dancing a reel" which sounds odd - but there WERE some that only needed 3 people...which he could definityly have swung
- Miss B will snark about Darcy's Great Uncle a judge and EB's Uncle Phillips, a lawyer. They're in the same line of work, but there were only ab out 15 judges in all of England at the time in question - V Presigious job. Atty's were the lowest version of lawyer, only needed 5 yrs apprenticeship

## Post-chapter Notes
- I didn't point this out before, but the two Bingley sisters were waited on by "two elegant ladies" ***ahem***
- not BS to think Jane should stay put - think of the roads...and the damp...and the ick.
- Bingly- PITA - "whatever I do is done in a hurry..."
- EB to Bingley - "Oh yes, I understand you perfectly" -- um...not really
- Mom (thinking it's a ziger at Darcy) "He has always something to say to everybody. **_That_ is my idea of good breeding;** and those persons who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths quite mistake the matter." OY!
- Mom-the scandal of Charlotte having to go home b/c she was "wanted about the mince pies"—JA had to "help in the kitchen" too, but it had more to do with keeping track of the pantry/stocks rather than actually COOKING. Not uncommon.
- Lydia hassling Bingly for the ball is kinda a dick move
- Darcy gets increasingly sarcastic to Miss B - possibly b/c he now sees her in comparison to EB
- Darcy Characterization: “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast.”
- Bingley said he appreciated EB's giving Darcy's comment on his humble-brag a "turn" to make B sound better. EB does this a lot, where she misrepresents D back to him or others to score points.
- HOW DIFFERENT would the book be if EB had danced a reel with D?!
- How rare must women like EB have been for Darcy to be bewiched with her?! (or maybe how rarely women let men SEE them like EB does)
- RUDE Mrs Hurst/Miss B leaving EB behind.

